Another thing that happens a lot in stage
three is, in fact there's a conversation
about this usually early on, especially
in engineering led design systems.
And that's when the dev team, or
the engineering team says look,
your designs are all over the place,
we need some way of roping this in.
And so we want consistency, so
we're gonna build a system that creates
consistency out of the chaos you give us.
[LAUGH] And what happens is early on
usually a few designers are like, my gosh,
what are you talking about?
The design system is gonna take my job
away, it's gonna do the job for me.
What do I even need to be here for if all
of the things we've designed are just in
the system and
I don't need to do the work anymore?
That's usually a conversation that
maybe surfaces briefly early on, but
stage three is where it
really rears its head.
And that's because now people
are actually using this thing and
they're getting to feel the rub here,
they feel does the system
force me into consistency or
does it offer me flexibility?
And I actually hate this
slide [LAUGH] in my deck,
because I actually don't think that
this is an either or situation.
I like to think about it more like this,
I can have an inflexible system or
I can have a flexible system.
I can create inconsistent
output in my products, or
I can create consistent
output in my products.
All of these are possible,
all of these quadrants.
Nobody wants to be in the bottom left,
right,
inconsistent output with
an inflexible system.
So we're gonna ignore that one, we're
gonna assume that at least you've got
something happening in top left,
right, or bottom right.
But let's talk a little bit
about these quadrants, okay.
In the top left we've got
a really flexible system, but
that's resulting in very
inconsistent output.
So the system lets you
do anything you want and
people are doing anything they want,
[LAUGH] this is not a good place.
There's unclear or
no guidelines maybe in that system.
There are processes not really open for
conversation, they're pretty closed.
There's poor or no governance,
that means we're not testing,
we haven't defined quality.
And maybe there's a false
sense of trust here.
Because I've said hey,
the system is flexible,
I trust you to do with it what you want,
but the results are not good.
I kind of think of this as
like that Wild West culture.
Now in the bottom right we've
got consistent output, but
the system itself is really inflexible.
So we're forcing consistency
upon people with
a really rigid system,
an inflexible system.
So this, instead of sort of
that false sense of trust,
this I think of as more
of a lack of trust.
You've removed flexibility, you've
taken away my ability to do the things,
from my perception as a designer perhaps,
that I need to do, so
I'm not contributing, you don't trust me.
And this is a really kind of a space
of just creative frustration for
folks on the design research
UX side of the work.
Of course, what we want is a really
flexible system that enables people to not
have that frustration experience,
to have real trust, and
we want them to create
consistent output with it.
[LAUGH] So
that's where we we do things with our
system that are very clear guidelines.
Open processes,
there's a lot more transparency.
We've taken the time to actually define
governance, what does quality mean for us,
and we've defined that well.
Perhaps that lives at
the foundational level,
even in something like our
design principles or values, and
it filters all the way up through
everything, all the way up to components.
There's a high level of trust
here that the team is unified.
And the organization values consistency,
so the culture creates consistency.
And this is where i kind of
land with systems like this,
I think I would say that you need both.
You need flexibility, your system does
need to be flexible because things
are gonna change and your system
has to be able to accommodate that.
But of course you want your products to
be more consistent and more cohesive.
So your system has to enable that
creativity, it has to be flexible, but
your culture has to encourage restraint.
And that's the way that you're
able to create something that
actually offers a lot of value and
has really a lot of breadth in
terms of what its capabilities are.
I've written a lot more about this
here at this article on our blog,
it's just The Myth of
Creative Restraint in Design Systems.
So in the notes you'll be able to
go take a peek at this if that's
of interest to you.